RHIDP-7794 Clarify authenticating and integrating with GitHub (#1224)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/integrating-with-github/proc-enabling-github-repository-discovery.adoc

Select `Only on this account`.

.. In the *General* -> *Clients secrets* section, click *Generate a new client secret*.

.. In the *General* -> *Private keys* section, click *Generate a private key*.

.. In the *Install App* tab, choose an account to install your GitHub App on.

.. Save the following values for the next step:

* **App ID**
* **Client ID**
* **Client secret**
* **Private key**
* **Webhook secret**

. To add your GitHub credentials to {product-short}, add the following key/value pairs to link:{configuring-dynamic-plugins-book-url}#provisioning-your-custom-configuration[your {product-short} secrets]:
+
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_APP_ID`::
Enter the saved **App ID**.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID`::
Enter the saved **Client ID**.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET`::
Enter the saved **Client Secret**.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN`::
Enter the GitHub host domain: `github.com`.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_ORGANIZATION`::
Enter your GitHub organization name, such as `__<your_github_organization_name>__'.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE`::
Enter the saved **Private key**.
`INTEGRATION_GITHUB_WEBHOOK_SECRET`::
Enter the saved *Webhook secret*.

> `INTEGRATION_GITHUB_WEBHOOK_URL`::
> Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. Enable the `plugin-catalog-backend-module-github` plugin in your `dynamic-plugins.yaml` file.
+
This plugin discovers catalog entities by scanning repositories within a GitHub organization for `catalog-info.yaml` files.
It provides an automated alternative to manually registering components via `catalog.locations`.
When a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, the entity is ingested into the catalog as a component.
+
.`dynamic-plugins.yaml` file fragment
[code,yaml]
----
plugins:
  - package: './dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-github'
    disabled: false
----

> . To enable GitHub integration with a different authentication provider, add the `catalog.providers.github` and the `integration.github` sections to your custom {product-short} `{my-app-config-file}` configuration file:

Author: Looks like a leftover.

+
.`{my-app-config-file}` file fragment with mandatory fields to enable GitHub integration
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    github:
      providerId:
        organization: "${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_ORGANIZATION}"
        schedule:
          frequency:
            minutes: 30
          initialDelay:
            seconds: 15
          timeout:
            minutes: 15
integrations:
  github:
    - host: ${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_HOST_DOMAIN}
      apps:
        - appId: ${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_APP_ID}
          clientId: ${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID}
          clientSecret: ${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET}

>           webhookUrl: ${INTEGRATION_GITHUB_WEBHOOK_URL}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[id="enabling-github-repository-discovery"]
= Enabling GitHub repository discovery

Consider configuring {product-short} to discover and ingest your GitHub repositories automatically.

> If a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, {product-short} will ingest the repository into the catalog as a component.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, {product-short} ingests the repository into the catalog as a component.
```

.Prerequisites
* You link:{configuring-book-url}[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.

* You have sufficient permissions in GitHub to create and manage a link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/overview[GitHub App].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to access the GitHub API, create a GitHub App.
Opt for a GitHub App instead of an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions, gain more control over which repositories the application can access, and use short-lived tokens.

.. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the following configuration:

GitHub App name::
Enter a unique name identifying your GitHub App, such as `integrating-with-rhdh-__<GUID>__`.

Homepage URL::
Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Authorization callback URL::
Enter your {product-short} authentication backend URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/github/handler/frame]`.

Webhook::

> Uncheck "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Clear "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers. 
```
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/34651c63-fad8-4b65-aef1-f765f9da3d5e)

[id="enabling-github-repository-discovery"]
= Enabling GitHub repository discovery

> By default, you register components manually into {product}.
> Consider configuring {product-short} to discover your GitHub repositories automatically.
> When a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, {product-short} ingests the entity into the catalog as a component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider configuring {product-short} to discover and ingest your GitHub repositories automatically.
If a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, {product-short} will ingest the repository into the catalog as a component.
```

.Prerequisites
* You link:{configuring-book-url}[added a custom {product-short} application configuration], and have sufficient permissions to modify it.
* You have sufficient permissions in GitHub to create and manage a link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/overview[GitHub App].

.Procedure
. To allow {product-short} to access the GitHub API, create a GitHub App.
Opt for a GitHub App instead of an OAuth app to use fine-grained permissions, gain more control over which repositories the application can access, and use short-lived tokens.

.. link:https://docs.github.com/en/apps/creating-github-apps/registering-a-github-app/registering-a-github-app[Register a GitHub App] with the following configuration:
+
GitHub App name::
Enter a unique name identifying your GitHub App, such as `integrating-with-rhdh-__<GUID>__`.

Homepage URL::
Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.

Authorization callback URL::
Enter your {product-short} authentication backend URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}/api/auth/github/handler/frame]`.

> Webhook URL::
> Enter your {product-short} URL: `pass:c,a,q[{my-product-url}]`.
> 
> Webhook secret::
> Enter a strong secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Webhook::
Uncheck "Active", as this is not needed for authentication and catalog providers. 
```
<img width="378" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/acd4c587-4c84-4582-9ee7-a945d2c5b4cb" />

Since upstream just marked this option as optional (see [changelogs](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/integration/CHANGELOG.md?plain=1#L117-L123) in BS1.38) and this is not used for auth or catalog provider, we can omit these 2 values. We just have to make sure that this is targeted for the RHDH v1.7 release.

App permissions::
Select permissions to define the level of access for the app.
Adapt permissions to your needs:

Reading software components:::

Contents::::
`Read-only`

Commit statuses::::
`Read-only`

Reading organization data:::

Members::::
`Read-only`

> Publishing software templates:::

Reviewer: These are for running software templates that use github scaffolder actions. I don't think there are docs on software templates at the moment but it would better fit there.

Author: Good practice is probably to use one unique GitHub app for integration, therefore:

```suggestion
Publishing software templates:::
Set permissions if you intend to use the same GitHub App for software templates.
```

Administration::::
`Read & write` (for creating repositories)

Contents::::
`Read & write`

Metadata::::
`Read-only`

Pull requests::::
`Read & write`

Issues::::
`Read & write`

Workflows::::
`Read & write` (if templates include GitHub workflows)

Variables::::
`Read & write` (if templates include GitHub Action Repository Variables)

Secrets::::
`Read & write` (if templates include GitHub Action Repository Secrets)

Environments::::
`Read & write` (if templates include GitHub Environments)

Organization permissions::
* Enable `Read-only` access to *Members*.

Where can this GitHub App be installed?::
Select `Only on this account`.

.. In the *General* -> *Clients secrets* section, click *Generate a new client secret*.

.. In the *General* -> *Private keys* section, click *Generate a private key*.

.. In the *Install App* tab, choose an account to install your GitHub App on.

.. Save the following values for the next step:

* **App ID**
* **Client ID**
* **Client secret**
* **Private key**

> * **Webhook secret**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

. To add your GitHub credentials to {product-short}, add the following key/value pairs to link:{configuring-dynamic-plugins-book-url}#provisioning-your-custom-configuration[your {product-short} secrets].
You can use these secrets in the {product-short} configuration files by using their respective environment variable name.
+
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_APP_ID`::
Enter the saved **App ID**.
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_CLIENT_ID`::
Enter the saved **Client ID**.
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_CLIENT_SECRET`::
Enter the saved **Client Secret**.
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_HOST_DOMAIN`::
Enter the GitHub host domain: `github.com`.
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_ORGANIZATION`::
Enter your GitHub organization name, such as `__<your_github_organization_name>__'.
`GITHUB_INTEGRATION_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE`::
Enter the saved **Private key**.

> `GITHUB_INTEGRATION_WEBHOOK_SECRET`::
> Enter the saved *Webhook secret*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

When a repository contains a `catalog-info.yaml` file, the entity is ingested into the catalog as a component.
+
.`dynamic-plugins.yaml` file fragment
[code,yaml]
----
plugins:
  - package: './dynamic-plugins/dist/backstage-plugin-catalog-backend-module-github'
    disabled: false
----

. Configure the GitHub integration, by adding the `catalog.providers.github` and the `integrations.github` sections to your custom {product-short} `{my-app-config-file}` configuration file:
+
.`{my-app-config-file}` file fragment with mandatory fields to enable GitHub integration
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
catalog:
  providers:
    github:
      providerId:
        organization: "${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_ORGANIZATION}"
        schedule:
          frequency:
            minutes: 30
          initialDelay:
            seconds: 15
          timeout:
            minutes: 15
integrations:
  github:
    - host: ${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_HOST_DOMAIN}
      apps:
        - appId: ${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_APP_ID}
          clientId: ${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_CLIENT_ID}
          clientSecret: ${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_CLIENT_SECRET}

>           webhookSecret: ${GITHUB_INTEGRATION_WEBHOOK_SECRET}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
